hey there welcome to create you remember
I'm Heidi Swapp and today I'm going to
talk to you about pre-made albums that
are already totally done for you super
cool and all you have to do is add your
memories now you guys have seen me on
this show
especially creating all kinds of
different albums I love to use my cinch
I love to work with chipboard and you
know all kinds of different things
packaging that I find in my pantry clear
pages you name it I have tried to make
an album out of it but sometimes isn't
it just awesome to be able to buy a
really cool album and just add your
memories just take a huge stack of
photos and start inserting them and
having it already be beautiful and be
easy and quick and fun so that is what I
want to talk to you today I want to talk
to you about three different options
that are available that just make it
really easy for you to get started I'm
gonna start out showing you off the mini
this is the mini memory file album okay
so it may look familiar to you it is
made out of mini memory files and it is
already bound for you so this cute
little binding is already done you don't
have to buy a cinch you don't have to
hunt down this cute little teeny binding
and you don't have to punch the holes
nothing it is already done so when you
buy this album it's completely plain its
plain on the front it's just the stripes
and so I have gone in and I've added
some I've used some of my buzz words
alphabet some pennants chipboard
stickers and chipboard stars to really
doll up the cover but let me show you
what's on the inside on the inside you
get five by seven sleeves five by seven
paper double-sided paper you see more of
the little memory file the little memory
files that have been bound in there you
see more little photo sleeves this time
there's three by fours
more pages more photo sleeves and then
just perfectly kind of a monochromatic
this black and white with a pop of pink
color papers that are just waiting for
your memories so you don't have to
create the album all you have to do to
go to work so I want to show you some
fun possibilities this one was actually
created by one of the members of my
media team and her name is Jamie pate
she took this really already done album
and added so many wonderful touches she
used insta frames and the insta frames
are so quick all you have to do is add
your photo in there and it looks like a
real embellishment on your page this is
when you just start adding the pennants
and the chipboard and whatever you have
in your stash one of the things that I
loved that Jamie did in this particular
in this particular album was that when
she got to this 5x7 photo sleeve she put
she cut vellum now I'm not sure if you
can tell but when you look at this you
can kind of see through it so on one
side of the vellum she has in here and
just so that you can tell there's a
pennant in there there's more insta
frames and more little decorative
elements but watch what happens when I
turn the page she has actually added
embellishments on the outside of the
sheet protector with that soft vellum as
the background now I just think that is
such a fun way to do something really
different on an already really cool um
photo sleeve that's already there ready
for you to go then she has added more
little touches on these pages she's kept
it simple and consistent you can see
here that she even added a little
interactive card and text underneath
that little element to give it some
interest and she's added more photos
into those photo sleeves doesn't always
have to be a photo it could also be
little scraps of paper that just add
that nice color pop that you're looking
for
that's one way that you can get started
right away all right now if you're if
you're more of a project oriented person
where maybe it's not just one event that
was actually a birthday party but maybe
you're documenting a whole year or a
whole trip or maybe even a series of
years this chipboard album this is
actually a binder now you can see that
I've done a lot of really fun
decorations on the front but really the
binder is already made for you it comes
it's chipboard and it's a really heavy
chipboard like awesomely heavy chipboard
then when you open it up this is full of
divider pages that have little tabs and
a whole bunch of these sheet protector
divided pages and so some of them have
six some have four they're all just a
little bit different configuration but
if I flip back here I'll just show just
to give you an idea I mean you get a ton
of these page protectors where you can
add little bits of journaling or
memorabilia right inside and it's just
kind of a good journal as you go but
because it is a binder you can open it
up and add your own papers or your own
notes or whatever as your journey
progresses so what I did was decorated
the inserts and then added just really
simple bits and pieces into those photo
sleeves I stole Jamie's idea and put
some vellum pages in there so that there
was this really cool kind of see-through
effect but you can see that by just
adding some really interesting stuff on
the dividers I can keep the in-between
pages and those page sleeves really
simple all right so this is also
available this one's available at
michael's and it's an awesome one to
kind of document your journey now this
is kind of my favorite all-time the the
super fun this is something that I would
actually make but all of the work is
done
now inside this this is called a memory
file album and it's already bound and
there's 34 different pages in here and
what you'll see is all that there's tons
of different patterns tons of different
sizes all these cute little peekaboo
holes little dynamic shapes and even
these really fun clear pages that allow
you to do all that cool layering that I
love to do on my own
there's many file folders in here with
little peekaboo areas and the fun thing
about this is you can go as slow or as
fast but it's the the bulk of the work
is done and so you can just get started
adding your photos and your memories so
what I think what you've got to do is
grab a hold of one of these pre-made
albums grab some things from your stash
whether it's scraps from your scrap door
drawer alphabets whatever you have on
hand or go buy something new like clear
pop and start stapling it in adding
those memories doing some journaling and
trying some of those fun techniques like
adding vellum into the photo sleeves and
decorating on top of photo sleeves and
if you will find that as you just do it
and you don't have to worry about
creating the album that the creativity
will just fund will just come and it
will be fun to make pretty stuff